- When executing builds with Gradle,
there are two options to choose from.
One option is to use the Gradle build command,
like we've already seen.
This uses the Gradle distribution
that we installed manually on our workstation.
The other option is to use the Gradle Wrapper.
The Gradle Wrapper is a script
that downloads a specific version of Gradle
which is then used to execute builds and other tasks.
It's a way to package the Gradle software,
right alongside your source code.
You can see the script for the Gradle Wrapper here,
right within the root of our project.
There's also a batch script,
if you're working with windows.
These scripts were placed inside the project by default,
when we created it with the Gradle in it task.
The task also creates the Gradle Wrapper directory
and inside of it we find two files.
One is a properties file,
which specifies the version of Gradle
that we would like to download
and install with the Wrapper.
And the other's a jar file
that actually does the download for us.
It's recommended to include the Wrapper in your projects
because it allows developers
to skip the manual Gradle installation that we performed.
It also ensures the same version of Gradle is used
every time the build is executed for the project.
Let's go ahead and kick off a build with the Gradle Wrapper.
To do that,
we just use the Wrapper script,
and then we pass it a task to execute.
Now, in this case, it's going to be the build task,
but we can pass the Wrapper any tasks that we would perform
using a normal Gradle installation.
So I'm just going to go ahead
and kick off that task
and we can see our build start to execute
and there it's finished.
Now you might be wondering what actually happened.
Well let's take a closer look.
Inside of our sub-project app.
You'll notice a new directory named build.
This directory contains all of the artifacts
that were produced when we executed our Gradle build.
Let's take a look inside this directory
to see what was produced.
Now here,
I'm just going to spotlight a few important things.
First, you'll notice that the classes
for our Application source code
were placed within the app build classes directory.
So here's the main class for the app.
And then you'll also notice that the tests were compiled
that's because they were ran as part of the build.
And if we navigate down within the directory,
you'll actually see that a report was generated
about our testing from the build.
So here you can see that report.
It's within the index study HTML file.
I'm going to go ahead and that up on Firefox.
So here you see the test report
that was generated by Gradle.
Now, right now we only have one test,
but hey, at least it passed.
We'd like to see more of those.
But the main point here
is that Gradle is giving us feedback
about the quality of our software.
Okay, let's return to our build directory.
And I want to highlight one more very important thing.
You'll notice the app.jar file within the libs directory.
This is the main artifact produced from our build.
It contains our packaged application.
So this is really the whole point of conducting the build.
By default, the jar file is not executable.
We'll handle that part later.
But for now we can launch the application
using the Gradle Wrapper.
Let me show you how,
once again we'll use the Gradle Wrapper script
and we're just going to pass it another test this time
named run.
I'll go ahead and execute that task.
And there you can see our application was launched
and it printed a bit of console output to our terminal.
Okay, so that wraps things up.
We saw another way to execute Gradle builds and tasks.
And that was the Gradle Wrapper.
Because it's the preferred approach,
We're going to be using it going forward in the course.